17/5/2017 - Ang Jin Kuan
First entry of the update log!

I've actually been working on the project for about a week now.
I've managed to get the website up and running, accessible from over the internet.
The security cert still gives me warning with some AltName or something.
I'll solve that by tomorrow.

All the dependencies and stuff has already been decided.
We're using node with socket.io. I decided on this after looking at C# code for the
server, and NOT UNDERSTANDING A SINGLE THING. I could slowly learn it, but frankly
ain't nobody got time for that shit. Javascript's nice in it's own way anyway.
For the client side, we're using Pixi.js for the graphics. Right now it seems like
I have to make all the art/graphics by myself, since my other group members won't do art.
I'll do pixel art so it doesn't overwhelm me. Last thing I want is to deal with 3D models.
For sound I'll use howler.js. The sound is lower priority, but I hope I'll have enough time to do that.

As for progress I'm now only laying all the groundwork for the whole project,
including the API that I (and everyone else) will be using. Frankly that's the most difficult part,
but that means once I manage to finish that, that layer of abstraction will make things much
easier in the long run.

Nigel's handling all database nonsense, so I got that going for me.
Bryan's already done the login thing, it's a small part, but something > nothing.
Chloe and Qing Ning are doing the powerpoint slides/reports. I'd better finish before they start work.

18/5/2017 - Ang Jin Kuan
HTTPS is now fully working!!
I've also managed to get PIXI to work, at least, just the 'display a static image' part.
I was actually trying to get it to disappear and reappear on click but I didn't manage that part.
It's 11.47pm already too, so I gotta go sleep now.
The first presentation is tomorrow, and I've not prepared at all. Ah well.

23/5/2017 - Ang Jin Kuan
I've moved around a bunch of things, and renamed others.
The main thing I've done is setup, and thinking up the file setup for every future update.
Routing has been set up properly, routes to / will go to index, /play to the play handler, and all else to their specified folders.
That took me a while to figure out, ended up being just me sucking at regex.
Speaking of index, I've moved all (and future) html files to /site, for additional organization.
All initialization of the express app, session handler, and io has been moved to /server/server-setup.js
Node's actually really useful for the modularization.
Figured out form submission using express as well, and in the process had to learn about GET and POST protocols,
and how express handles all that nonsense.
Express is actually really good in abstracting all that process, the XMLHttpSomething stuff and jQuery ajax stuff just confuses
me more than anything else.
Doing the form submission thing also means that the validation and sanitization stuff has the beginning stuff figured out already.
That'll make Qing Ning's job easier later.

Next up, I'm going to do up room joining! (By thursday I hope)
If I'm doing that I'll need to figure out the form data processing too......

24/5/2017 - Ang Jin Kuan
The Great Refactoring begins!
I heard the 3 part system the teacher described during one of our practicals
And as such, I'm changing things up to accommodate for that!
Basically, there's the Web Server, Logic Server, and the Database server.
As far as I'm concerned, that means that I have to separate the web server
and the game logic, and have some way to connect the two together.
Most likely socket.io again though.
That also complicates my job by quite a bit.
sighhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhh..............

28/5/2017 - Ang Jin Kuan
Finished the Great Refactoring!
Actually, I did that 2 days ago.
Whatever!
The WebServer and AppServer as I'm going to call them both from now on,
are completely separate! The WebServer and AppServer will authenticate using
a password set using the run-server.bat file too, so that's an extra security feature!
Still, I had to learn batch scripting, which is yet another thing I can do now I guess.
The main thing I managed to do these past 4 days was get those two servers
working together, which was A LOT MORE PAINFUL THAN I THOUGHT IT WOULD BE.
The hardest part isn't actually coding up what I need now, it's
making sure that I can always extend from all the infrastructure I'm building
up throughout all this time. Javascript's extra loose typing does help in that regard,
but I can't rely on that too much else it becomes too confusing.
For now I put a bunch of switch cases, I hope that's enough to carry the whole project.
Those switches will check for a number or a string as an option, so that's infinitely
extensible, which is just fine and dandy.

I've also finished figuring out another thing: Cookies!
The express-session thing and its documentation gave me so much confusion.
Express-session says I don't need to use cookie-parser, but I couldn't figure out
how to read the cookie without cookie-parser.
I've set their keys to be the same, so it shouldn't be too much of a problem.

Both of these things culminated in me successfully processing the inputs of a form,
then redirecting the user to a page with just one <h1>Hello!</h1> in it.
It's really not much at all, but I'm taking any victory I'm gonna get.

Now that that's all working, next week, I can finally focus on coding the
classic game mode!

1/6/2017 - Ang Jin Kuan
Finally managed to make some progress on the game itself.
I'm currently still working on getting quiz hosting to work, once that's done
I can finally start work on classic mode (which according to the schedule I
drew up should have been done LAST WEEK). The User -> Web -> App communication
is REALLY A HUGE PAIN IN THE ASS, but that's what I got myself into.

Main progress this day was another round of refactoring, this time I moved out
a lot of the AppServer and WebServer portions to their own files. Like socket.io
stuff gets their own file, and the other types get their respective one. I'm
hoping that this makes maintenance and extension a lot easier in the long run.

I've also defined a constants file, /custom-API/constants.json. This was made so
that I can not use strings for event/response/whatever flags, and yet still have
the message be very clear. This should increase performance of the server.

Next, I've went ahead and learned Promises and async/await. This immediately
came into play as I made all my cipher.js API asynchronous, and had a lot of the
communication stuff inside async functions as well. Still not sure about the
event loop thing, but running multiple things at the same time is always good,
right?

I think I'm the only person in this whole damn class that's already coding up
the project. I know for sure at least one other group hasn't even wrote a single
line. Yet I am here working on this nonsense almost every day already.

Am I trying too hard? (please don't let this end in disaster)

4/6/2017 - Ang Jin Kuan

Today's Saturday, and I spent most of the day coding. Yaaaaaayyyy

Needless to say I got quite a bit done. Last time I left off I only got the host
room form working. All it will do is generate a random number and send it to the
host. That was done using socket.io. And this was 2 days ago.

Since then I've shifted the room number generating from socket.io to the
req/res parts. I had to learn how to use the templating language pug in the
process. That's yet ANOTHER thing I had to pick up. Seriously, after this I
should be able to create pretty much anything given enough time. I'm just kidding,
BUT STILL. Shifting that is more troublesome than it might seem, since I have this
3-part setup over here.

I've designated a new set of request type, the special type! This is for events
that are unusual, but do not really warrant an error. For now the only special
event is a socket disconnecting. The server will handle sending the disconnect
message to all in the room, and disconnect all if it was the host that disconnected.
I'll have to make further improvements later, for example not disconnecting
everyone immediately when the host disconnects, but maybe after a set amount of
time, but those will definitely have to come later. Right now my first priority
is to get room hosting, room joining, game starting, and classic mode all
working together flawlessly.

Right now what's working is room hosting, gamemode selection (will have to expand
to fit much more options later), room joining, and updating the display for everyone
on a player join or leave. It really doesn't sound like much, but it still took
up this entire day of mine. At least, this should be the hardest part, once I
got this down I can move on to the fun part, the game!

...and then have to go back to this to extend this with some additional features
and more importantly, security stuff.
